              Text files distributed by AIPSSERV           01/30/90

     This file documents the various categories of text files
distributed by AIPSSERV.  In some of these cases these is a further text
file describing the details.  To obtain a text file in plain text form,
send AIPSSERV a message of the form:
sendplain logical:filename.ext
where "logical" is the logical name of the directory and "filename.ext"
is the name of the desired file.  Multiple files may be obtained by
multiple "sendplain" commands, one per line.  Sending AIPSSERV a
message:
help
will cause it to send you a complete description of its functions.

Installation Problems:
---------------------
   When problems with an installation of AIPS appear, a file will be
created named "DOC:VMSNOTES.yyn" and/or "DOC:UNIXNOTES.yyn" where "yy"
is the last two digits of the year number and "n" is "A", "B", "C" or
"D" for the 15JAN, 15APR, 15JUL or 15OCT release and "VMS" and "UNIX"
refer to the VMS and Unix versions.  These files will describe known
problems and fixes for these problems.  For example, to obtain the
VMSNOTES file for 15JAN90 send AIPSSERV the message:
sendplain doc:vmsnotes.90a

CHANGE.DOC:
----------
   The old versions of the software change documentation files,
CHANGE.DOC, will be kept in area AIPSPUBL with names of the form
"CHANGED.yyn" where "yy" is the last two digits of the year number
and "n" is "A", "B", "C" or "D" for the 15JAN, 15APR, 15JUL
or 15OCT release.  For example, to obtain the CHANGE.DOC file for
15JAN90 send AIPSSERV the message:
sendplain aipspubl:changed.90a
Note that we are no longer distributing CHANGE.DOC as part of the
AIPSLetter.

Ionospheric data:
----------------
   Polarization calibration of interferometric observations made at low
radio frequencies frequently need to have corrections applied for the
Faraday rotation of the signal through the ionosphere.  Measurments
suitable for the calibration of the VLA made at Boulder, Colorado
using the AIPS task FARAD will be made available using AIPSSERV.  These
files will be kept in a directory with logical name AIPSIONS.  These
files will be named TECB.yy where yy are the last two digits of the
year.  The data will be entered into the appropriate file as it becomes
available to the NRAO; this is typically several months  after the fact.
As an example, to fetch the file containing information for February
1989 send AIPSSERV the message:
sendplain aipsions:tecb.89
 


