@@
D. SHORT CUT INSTALLATION PROCEDURE

1. When this procedure can be used.

                        NOTE:

        As of the 15MAR84 version we could no longer
        send all of the executable modules and object
        libraries and still fit AIPS onto one 1600 BPI tape.
        Therefore, we have put these modules needed for
        the shortcut procedure onto a second tape for those
        sites that request 1600 BPI tapes.  Since
        most sites do not use the shortcut procedure we
        do not send the second tape (labeled AIPS2) unless
        this tape is specifically requested.  Sites that
        request 6250 tapes still get the files needed for
        the shortcut installation procedure.

   An installation similar enough to NRAO to run NRAO's executable
modules can use this short cut installation procedure.  This means
that the installing site must be on the same release of the
operating system, and have an AP120B array processor, and not need
to make any changes to widely used subroutines like ZDCHIN. ZDCHIN
contains system parameters such as disk cluster size.  This procedure
is useful in getting AIPS up with a minimum of disk space and execution
time.

2. Overview

This procedure uses some of the same command procedures used in the
main installation procedure.  The difference is
that the short cut installation procedure (ISHORTINS) does not
compile and link all the programs.  The executable modules and object
libraries are copied from save sets at the end of the tape for 6250 BPI
tapes or from a second tape for 1600 BPI tape.  The
disk files are created and initialized in the usual manner.  An
option exists to not load the source code.  This allows the installer
to save disk space by keeping source code on tape.

3. Using the short cut installation procedure.

   First create the AIPS account and a main directory for AIPS on all
disks to be used by AIPS. Detailed descriptions for doing this can
be found in section C.

   Next log on to the AIPS account.  Place the tape labeled AIPS
on the tape drive and mount the tape with the command

MOUNT /FOREIGN tape_drive_physical_name DUMMY TAPE:

Load the necessary command file with the DCL command

BACKUP TAPE:START.BCK []/NEW_VERSION

   The short cut installation procedure is activated by
typing

@ISHORTINS

   The first part of the installation prompts for all the parameters,
directory, and device names needed for the installation.  The prompts
are identical to those of the main installation procedures ILOAD and
IBUILD.  For a detailed description of the prompts and responses see
section C-4.

   The first new prompt is:

DO YOU WANT TO LOAD SOURCE CODE? 0=NO, 1=YES :

   If you answer 1 (yes) then the source code is loaded from the
first tape.  If you have two 1600 BPI tapes first tape is dismounted
and the procedure waits while you mount the 2nd tape ON THE SAME DRIVE.
Enter a "Y" (without the quotes) when ready.

   The procedure will then load the AIPS executable modules and libraries
from tape, set the group logical assignments needed to run AIPS by
calling ASSIGNL.COM and create and initialize the data files. At this
point you should be ready to run AIPS with an @AIPS command.

   The only other action required is to make sure that ASSIGNL.COM
is executed either in the LOGIN.COM file or by the system startup
procedure.  See section C-5 for suggestions on this and other
notes on tailoring AIPS to your system.
