Updating instructions for 15-Oct-1984 release (Save/Get ver 7).


IGNORE THESE INSTRUCTIONS UNLESS YOU ALREADY HAVE AN OLD AIPS
RUNNING THAT YOU WANT TO CONVERT TO THE NEW FORMAT.

Principles:  Once again, we have found it necessary to make major
changes in AIPS data files.  We have changed the internal format
of the clean component files, to the new generalized "table"
format.  This should give us added flexibility in writing
programs that need to manipulate these files.  Also, we have
changed two values in the file header of the catalog, the uv
group count and the number of clean iterations to true I*4.
This required some changes in the order of values in the header.

  This update requires running a file reformating program, CATCHT,
described below.  After the update the OLD area SHOULD NOT BE USED.
Users should be prohibited from logging on to OLD.

  The program to convert the data files to the new format is
called CATCHT.  This program must NOT be run for the same data
file more than one.  CATCHT will be compiled and linked by the
installation procedure.  To run this program after the installation
log on to AIPS and from the DCL level ($ prompt) type :

$ RUN [AIPS.new.LOAD]CATCHT

The first prompt is :

USER & DISK NUMBERS TO DO (2I4,2I2) DEFAULT=    0 #### 1 #

where the values #### and # are the highest allowable user number
and the highest disk volume number.  The part of the prompt (2I4,2I2)
reminds you to enter the numbers in the FORTRAN format where blanks
count.  In other words, to go from user number 1 to user number 1112
and do disk 3 only, enter

000111120303

If you enter a carriage return then the default numbers shown in the
prompt will be used.  These numbers include all users and all disks that
are known to AIPS (these numbers are set during the installation).
This is probably what you want to do for the first run of CATCHT.
When you run CATCHT on any demountable packs, you will want to limit
the changes to the disk volume containing that pack.

  After you enter these numbers the program will update all data files
printing a progress report as it goes.  If there are large
gaps between two user numbers the program may not print anything
for a few minutes.

  Any data recovered from VMS Backup tapes that were written before the
installation of the new system will need CATCHT run for the particular
user number involved.  FITS tapes and IBM format tapes will be converted
to the correct format automatically when read in.

The save get version for the 15OCT84 AIPS has increased to 7.
Since no OLD version can be run because of the file format changes
and the old SG files do not work with the new AIPS, all save get files
(files of the form [AIPS.DATA]SG*.* on AIPS disk 1) should be deleted.
