Updating instructions for 15-Jul-1985 release (Save/Get ver 7).


IGNORE THESE INSTRUCTIONS UNLESS YOU ALREADY HAVE AN OLD AIPS
RUNNING THAT YOU WANT TO CONVERT TO THE NEW FORMAT.

Principles:  Once again, we have found it necessary to make major
changes in AIPS data files.  We have removed the image headers
from the catalog files (CA files) and put each header into its
own individual file (CB files).  This will give us (as yet
unimplemented) the capablility of allowing catalog files to auto-
expand, rebuilding lost catalogs from the CB files and give us more
flexibility on backups.

  This update requires running a file reformating program, CATCHA,
described below.  After the update the OLD area SHOULD NOT BE USED.
Users should be prohibited from logging on to OLD.

  The program to convert the data files to the new format is
called CATCHA.  This program must NOT be run for the same data
file more than one.  CATCHA will be compiled and linked by the
installation procedure.  To run this program after the installation
log on to AIPS and from the DCL level ($ prompt) type :

$ RUN [AIPS.new.LOAD]CATCHA

The first prompt is :

USER & DISK NUMBERS TO DO (2I4,2I2) DEFAULT=    0 #### 1 #

where the values #### and # are the highest allowable user number
and the highest disk volume number.  The part of the prompt (2I4,2I2)
reminds you to enter the numbers in the FORTRAN format where blanks
count.  In other words, to go from user number 1 to user number 1112
and do disk 3 only, enter

000111120303

If you enter a carriage return then the default numbers shown in the
prompt will be used.  These numbers include all users and all disks that
are known to AIPS (these numbers are set during the installation).
This is probably what you want to do for the first run of CATCHA.
When you run CATCHA on any demountable packs, you will want to limit
the changes to the disk volume containing that pack.

  After you enter these numbers the program will update all catalog
files printing a progress report as it goes.  If there are large
gaps between two user numbers the program may not print anything
for a few minutes.

  Any data recovered from VMS Backup tapes that were written before the
installation of the new system will need CATCHA run for the particular
user number involved.  FITS tapes and IBM format tapes will be converted
to the correct format automatically when read in.

  Determining if CATCHA has been applied to a catalog file is easy at
the VMS DCL level.  Set the default to [AIPS.DATA] (or your equivalent)
and do a DIR CB*.hhh (where hhh is the user number in hexadecimal).
If any CB files exist, then that data set has been converted.  You can
also do a DIR /SIZE=ALL CA*.hhh and look at the size of the catalog file.
The new size should be much smaller than the previous size.  Our catalog
files went from 110 blocks to 13 blocks.
